hey this is presto Walker and you're
watching mind your decisions here's a
fun problem given to elementary school
students in China how tall is the table
based on the following pictures I
adapted this problem from a tweet by
China focus can you figure it out give
this problem a try and when you're ready
keep watching the video for a solution
[Music]
so one way to solve this problem is to
use algebra the first picture we can
translate into the following equation we
have the height of the cat plus the
height of the table minus the height of
the turtle is equal to 170 the second
picture will correspond to the equation
the height of the turtle plus the height
of the table
minus the height of the cat is equal to
130 so now from these two equations we
need to solve for the height of the
table there's a neat little trick we can
do we can add these two equations
together the variables of cat and turtle
will then cancel out so we have two x
table is equal to 170 plus 130 which is
300 and therefore table is equal to 150
so the height of the table is a hundred
and fifty centimeters that's one way we
can solve the problem now there's also a
clever way if you think visually imagine
stacking these two pictures on top of
each other now notice the height from
the top of the cat at the bottom to the
top of the cat at the top is equal to
130 plus 170 which is 300 we can then
erase the animals from the picture and
then we can rearrange it and we can
clearly see that the height of two
tables is 300
so the height of one table will be 150
centimeters did you figure it out thanks
for watching this video these map videos
which can be watched for free on YouTube
inspire and build confidence for people
around the world and they already have
over a hundred million views let's share
the beauty of mathematics with your help
we can map the world a better place
please subscribe for free to get the
newest videos watch and share all of
mine your decisions videos he will meet
a puzzle or matte topic pressure at mind
your decisions calm if you so choose you
can check out my books which are listed
in the video description and you can
support me on patreon for exclusive
rewards thanks for watching and thanks
for your support